I am Jomo Kenyatta. Born in 1897 in
Kiambu. I am an anti-colonial activist and
politician who governed Kenya as its Prime
Minister and then as its first President.
I am still often referred to as
mzee or the Father of the Nation.
My parents died while I was young, and I then
moved to Muthiga to live with my grandfather.
I left for Nairobi in 1922 to become a government
clerk. I also became more involved with the Kikuyu
Central Association or the K.C.A in 1925 and
resigned from my government post that same year.
In 1928 I became secretary-general of the K.C.A
and editor of its vernacular Kikuyu newspaper.
Appointed as an emissary to England by the
K.C.A, I made presentations to the Colonial
Office in England in 1929 and 1930. While in
Europe, I studied anthropology at the London
School of Economics, gave public lectures,
wrote to newspapers, participated in the
Pan-African Congress, and wrote a book on the
Kikuyu people entitled Facing Mount Kenya.
On my return to Kenya in 1946, I became president
of the Kenya African Union (K.A.U). Shortly I was
arrested with 97 other K.A.U leaders for claims
over the murder of Chief Waruhiu Kungu and for
managing the Mau Mau Rebellion. After 15 years,
I was released after national and international
protests. I then joined the Kenya African National
Union and soon became its president. Our party won
most seats in the new national assembly and
the following year I was named president.
I urged reconciliation among the various Kenyan
political factions and devised the national
slogan, Harambbee which means “pull-together”.
I established agencies that offered assistance to
indigenous Kenyans, granted former settler
farms to squatters and ex-Mau Mau members,
abolished British colonial laws which allowed
racial discrimination and promoted educational
reforms. My presidency is widely respected today
for its many accomplishments and for its stability
and peace. I died in Mombasa in 1978. Our
children may learn about the heroes of the past.
Our task is to make ourselves
the architects of the future.